docs/portfolio/index.md, before:

---
title: Case Studies
description: Datavengers is a data, analytics, and artificial intelligence company founded by Dr Miguel Miranda Dias to help businesses integrate AI and data into their operations. 
---

# Featured Projects

Welcome to my portfolio of data science and AI projects. Each project demonstrates my expertise in delivering impactful solutions to real-world business challenges.

<div class="grid cards" markdown>

-   [Patent Trend Analysis with LLMs](projects/project-patent-trend-analytics.md)

    ---

    End-to-end AI pipeline for classifying, translating, clustering, and summarizing patent filings to surface EV-battery technology trends for IP and innovation teams.

-   [Secure Enterprise AI Assistant](projects/project-local-chatbot.md)

    ---

    Enterprise-grade AI assistant deployed fully on-premises, combined with a deterministic RAG system with company-specific knowledge, and real-time translation, enabling safe and efficient use of AI without exposing sensitive data to third parties.

-   [AI-Powered Ergonomic Assessment with 3D Skeleton Tracking](projects/project-ergonomic-assessment.md)

    ---

    AI-powered 3D-vision workflow that lets ergonomists identify high-risk workstations quickly and consistently at plant scale.

</div>

Commit message:

docs: reorganize portfolio with numbered project files and add three new case studies

docs/portfolio/index.md, after:

---
title: Case Studies
description: Datavengers is a data, analytics, and artificial intelligence company founded by Dr Miguel Miranda Dias to help businesses integrate AI and data into their operations. 
---

# Featured Projects

Welcome to my portfolio of data science and AI projects. Each project demonstrates my expertise in delivering impactful solutions to real-world business challenges.

<div class="grid cards" markdown>

-   [Patent Trend Analysis with LLMs](projects/project-3-patent-trend-analytics.md)

    ---

    End-to-end AI pipeline to surface EV-battery technology trends for IP and innovation teams.

-   [Public complaint processing system](projects/project-6-complaint-processing-system.md)

    ---

    Automated multi-channel complaint intake and insights for a public entity.

-   [Secure Enterprise AI Assistant](projects/project-2-local-chatbot.md)

    ---

    Confidential ChatGPT-like assistant with RAG, translation, and secure on-premises deployment for 300+ employees.

-   [AI Executive Assistant for Email and Calendar](projects/project-5-email-calendar-assistant.md)

    ---

    Automated scheduling and email workflows through Slack and Nylas, cutting executive admin time by 50%.

-   [LLM-Based Clinical Decision Support System](projects/project-4-clinical-decision-support.md)

    ---

    RAG-powered decision support that surfaced trusted diagnoses and cut reference search time by 60%.

-   [AI-Powered Ergonomic Posture Tracking System](projects/project-1-ergonomic-assessment.md)

    ---

    Automated ergonomic scoring from depth-video, cutting plant-wide studies from 12 months to 3 weeks.

</div>
